
- The class path is the path that the Java Runtime Environment (JRE) searches for classes and other resource files.
    - classes included in .jar

- The CLASSPATH variable is one way to tell applications, including the JDK tools, where to look for user classes. (Classes that are part of the JRE, JDK platform, and extensions should be defined through other means, such as the bootstrap class path or the extensions directory.)
  
- The default value of the class path is ".", meaning that only the current directory is searched. Specifying either the CLASSPATH variable or the -cp command line switch overrides this value.
    - The preferred way to specify the class path is by using the -cp command line switch. This allows the CLASSPATH to be set individually for each application without affecting other applications. Setting the CLASSPATH can be tricky and should be performed with care.
        - The java command also has a -cp option that is an abbreviation for -classpath.
    - To modify the CLASSPATH, use the same procedure you used for the PATH variable.
        ```
            % echo $CLASSPATH
    
        ```
    
    
#####  Class Path Wild Cards (通配符 *)
- Class path wildcards allow you to include an entire directory of .jar files in the class path without explicitly naming them individually.

- Class path entries can contain the base name wildcard character (*), which is considered equivalent to specifying a list of all of the files in the directory with the extension .jar or .JAR.
    - For example, the class path entry mydir/* specifies all JAR files in the directory named mydir. 
    - A class path entry consisting of * expands to a list of all the jar files in the current directory. 
    - Files are considered regardless of whether they are hidden (have names beginning with '.').
    - A class path entry that contains an asterisk (*) does not match class files.
        - To match both classes and JAR files in a single directory mydir, use either mydir:mydir/* or mydir/*:mydir. The order chosen determines whether the classes and resources in mydir are loaded before JAR files in mydir or vice versa.
    - Subdirectories are not searched recursively
        - For example, mydir/* searches for JAR files only in mydir, not in mydir/subdir1, mydir/subdir2, and so on.
    - The order in which the JAR files in a directory are enumerated in the expanded class path is not specified
        - If a specific order is required, then the JAR files can be enumerated explicitly in the class path.
    - Expansion of wild cards is done early, before the invocation of a program's main method, rather than late, during the class-loading process
        - Each element of the input class path that contains a wildcard is replaced by the (possibly empty) sequence of elements generated by enumerating the JAR files in the named directory. 
        - For example, if the directory mydir contains a.jar, b.jar, and c.jar, then the class path mydir/* is expanded into mydir/a.jar:mydir/b.jar:mydir/c.jar, and that string would be the value of the system property java.class.path.
    - The CLASSPATH environment variable is not treated any differently from the -classpath or -cp options
        - Wild cards are honored in all of these cases. However, class path wild cards are not honored in the Class-Path jar-manifest header.

#### Class Path and Package Names (命令行需要指定类的完整包名)
- Java classes are organized into packages that are mapped to directories in the file system. But, unlike the file system, whenever you specify a package name, you specify the whole package name and never part of it. 
    - For example, the package name for java.awt.Button is always specified as java.awt.
- For example, suppose you want the Java JRE to find a class named Cool.class in the package utility.myapp. If the path to that directory is C:\java\MyClasses\utility\myapp, then you would set the class path so that it contains C:\java\MyClasses. To run that application, you could use the following java command:
```
java -classpath C:\java\MyClasses utility.myapp.Cool

```
- The entire package name is specified in the command. It is not possible, for example, to set the class path so it contains C:\java\MyClasses\utility and use the command java myapp.Cool. The class would not be found.
  
- You might wonder what defines the package name for a class. The answer is that the package name is part of the class and cannot be modified, except by recompiling the class.
  
- An interesting consequence of the package specification mechanism is that files that are part of the same package can exist in different directories. 
- The package name is the same for each class, but the path to each file might start from a different directory in the class path.
  

#### (classes included in)Folders and Archive Files
- When classes are stored in a directory (folder)
    - such as c:\java\MyClasses\utility\myapp, then the class path entry points to the directory that contains the first element of the package name (in this case, C:\java\MyClasses, because the package name is utility.myapp).
- When classes are stored in an archive file (a zip or JAR file) 
    - the class path entry is the path to and including the zip or JAR file. For example, the command to use a class library that is in a JAR file as follows:
        ```
        java -classpath C:\java\MyClasses\myclasses.jar utility.myapp.Cool
    
        ```
      
#### Multiple Specifications

- To find class files in the directory C:\java\MyClasses and classes in C:\java\OtherClasses, you would set the class path to the following. Note that the two paths are separated by a semicolon.
```
java -classpath C:\java\MyClasses;C:\java\OtherClasses ...

```
- semicolon ?? 
- but zookeeper classpath entries is separated by a colon(:)


#### Specification Order
- The Java interpreter will look for classes in the directories in the order they appear in the class path variable.
- The order in which you specify multiple class path entries is important.
- In the previous example, the Java interpreter will first look for a needed class in the directory C:\java\MyClasses. Only when it does not find a class with the proper name in that directory will the interpreter look in th